---
title: '"Don't Look Up" and storytelling with sicentific data'
date: 2022-01-09
permalink: /posts/2022/01/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Data analysis
  - Graphs
  - Satire comedy
  - Scientists
---

First of all, I would like to greet everyone a happy new year and hoping everybody is safe!

During the festive holidays, we went down to the Surf Coast.
One of the evenings down the coast, we decided to watch this fairly new Netflix movie called "Don't Look Up".

SPOILER ALERT!
------
It is about two astronomers that made an astounding discovery of a comet that will hit Earth. They decided to warn country leaders and the public about the planet-killing comet hurtling towards us. One of the interesting scenes for me is when the two astronomers are having difficulty in conveying their findings to the president.

Challenges in storytelling with scientific data...
------
1. I reckon, part of the issue is that we are used to draft reports full of scientific terms, jargons and expressions used in our field of specialisations. Most people are not expected to have the time and energy to read these reports or publications. Most of us, including scientists and academics, have limited time and attention span.

2. We are trained and expected to communicate using precise and neutral language in journal articles or grant applications. This is unquestionably important in the peer-review system. However, this may be misunderstood by the public. For example, the language we use to discuss the global changing climate has evolved from the neutral term "climate change", a more alarming "global warming", and then to a suitably distressing "climate crisis".

3. In addition to this, most people expect certainty. However, scientific practices and processes have inherent uncertainty mostly represented by confidence intervals and p-values. Most of the time, we present the findings without explicitly specifying the possible solutions. 

All about the Presentation's A-I-M...
------
* Who is my Audience?
* What is my Intent?
* What is my Message?

Academia-Industry linkage...
------


To sum it up...
------


Resources
======


